A Section of the Vajrakīla Root Tantra
from the Words of the Buddha

gyagar ké du benza kilaya mula tantra khanda
In the language of India: Vajrakīlaya-mūla-tantra-khaṇḍa
böké du dorjé purpa tsawé gyü kyi dumbu
In the language of Tibet: Dorjé phurba tsawé gyükyi dumbu (rdo rje phur pa rtsa ba’i rgyud kyi
dum bu)
In the English language: A Section of the Vajrakīla Root Tantra

chomdendé dorjé shyönnu la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed Vajrakumāra!

dorjé trowö shyedang chö
Vajra wrath cuts through aggression.
tsön chen ngönpo cher barwa
The great blue weapon blazes forth
namkhé kyil du tiklé shar
To dawn, like a drop, in the maṇḍala of the sky.
sok gi go ru sharwa dang
It becomes the gateway to the life force,
nying gi kyil du gompar ja
Visualized in the center of the heart.

nyingjé dralwé damtsik ni
The samaya of compassionately liberating
sé ching nenpa nyi min té
Involves neither killing nor subduing.
pungpo dorjé daknyi dé
The aggregates and consciousness are
nampar shepa dorjér gom
Transformed into vajra, their true nature.
om benza kili kilaya sarva bighanen bam hung pé | diptatsakra hana hana hung pé
oṃ vajra-kīli kīlaya sarva-vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ | dīpta-cakra hana hana hūṃ phaṭ |1

dorjé shyönnü rigdzin nam
Vidyādharas of Vajrakumāra,
khorwa dorjér drubpar dzö
Actualize saṃsāra as vajra!
khorwa dorjé purpé lha
Let saṃsāra become the deities of Vajrakīla
yeshe trowo drubpar dzö
And actualize the wisdom wrath!

sangye kün gyi yeshe ku
The wisdom forms of all the buddhas,
dorjé denyi rangshyin lé
Are, in their very nature of vajra suchness,
chö kyi ying kyi ngowo nyi
The essence of the dharmadhātu,
barwé trowo mizepé
The embodiment of unbearable, blazing wrath.
ku yi ter du dak kyé chik
I assume the treasury of your form.

tab kyi chöpé semchen dön
With skillful means and beings’ benefit in sight,
jam dang nyingjé gang dulwa
Bring to completion the buddha’s awakened activities
sangye trinlé dzokpar dzö
For those to be tamed by loving kindness and compassion.
wang dang jinlab dir tsol chik
Bestow your blessings and confer empowerment.

om benza krodha hungkara hung gardza gardza hung pé | om benza krodhidipayati hung | om benza
sukaramukha hung | om benza ishupamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodha-hūṃkāra hūṃ garja garja hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajra-krodhī-dīpayati hūṃ | oṃ vajra-sūkara-mukha
hūṃ | oṃ vajreṣupa-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo chenpo hung dzé dang dorjé lhamo dra jin dang trulpé lhamo tramenma pak gi gochen
dang tsangpé gochen no
These are the mantras for the great wrathful king Hūṃkāra, the vajra queen Dīpayatī, and the
emanated deities, the pig- and lizard-headed hybrids.2

om benza krodha vidzaya hung hana hana hung pé | om benza krodhi lasyaki hung | om benza byakrimukha
hung | om benza gridhamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodha-vijaya hūṃ hana hana hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī-lāsyaki hūṃ | oṃ vajra-vyāghra-mukha
hūṃ | oṃ vajra-gṛdhra-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo chenpo nampar gyalwa dang dorjé lhamo gekmo dang trulpé lhamo tramenma tak gi gowochen
dang jagö kyi gochen no
These are the mantras for the great wrathful king Viyaya, the vajra queen Lāsyakī, and the emanated
deities, the tiger- and vulture-headed hybrids.

om benza krodha niladanda hung daha daha hung pé | om benza krodhi tira hung | om benza tsamara
mukha hung | om benza tanamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-kroda-nīladaṇḍa hūṃ daha daha hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī tītāru hūṃ | oṃ vajra-camara-mukhi
hūṃ | oṃ vajra-droṇa-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo yuk ngön changwa dang lhamo dorjé dermo dang trulpé lhamo tramenma yak gochen dang
jarok gi gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Nīladaṇḍa, the vajra queen Tītāru,3 and the emanated
deities, the yak- and raven-headed hybrids.

om benza krodha yamantaka hung patsa patsa hung pé | om benza krodhi shamashanapati hung | om
benza harinamukha hung | om benza ulukamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodha-yamāntaka hūṃ paca paca hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajra-krodhī-śmaśānapati hūṃ | oṃ vajra-hariṇa-mukha
hūṃ | oṃ vajrolūka-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo shinjé tar jé dang dorjé lhamo durtrö kyi dakmo dang trulpé lhamo tramenma ridak
kyi gochen dang ukpé gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Yamāntaka, the vajra queen Śmaśānapatī, and the
emanated deities, the deer- and owl-headed hybrids.

om benza krodha arya atsala hung bhenda bhenda hung pé |om benza krodhi muhala hung | om benza
tayaki mukha hung | om benza pretamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodhāryācala hūṃ bandha bandha hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī-musala hūṃ | oṃ vajra-citraka-mukha
hūṃ | oṃ vajra-prītu-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo mi yo gönpo dang dorjé lhamo tün khung ma dang trulpé lhamo tramenma zik gi gochen
dang khé gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Āryācala, the vajra queen Musalā,4 and the emanated
deities, the leopard- and crow-headed hybrids.5

om benza krodha hayagriva hung hulu hulu hung pé | om benza krodhi dzayati hung | om benza bitalamukha
hung | om benza pakshita mukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodha-hayagrīva hūṃ hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajra-krodhī-jayati hūṃ | oṃ vajra-viḍāla-mukha
hūṃ | oṃ vajra-pakṣita-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo tamdrin dang dorjé lhamo tummo dang trulpé lhamo tramenma jilé gochen dang pushü
kyi gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Hayagrīva, the vajra queen Jayatī,6 and the emanated
deities, the cat- and hoopoe-headed hybrids.

om benza krodha aparadzita hung tishta tishta hung pé | om benza krodhi sajati hung | om benza
srigala mukha hung | om benza pentsa ranamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodhāparājita hūṃ tiṣṭha tiṣṭha hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī-savyati hūṃ | oṃ vajra-sṛgāla-muka
hūṃ | oṃ vajra-pañcaraṇa-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo shyen gyi mi tubpa dang dorjé lhamo da nyemma dang trulpé lhamo tramenma changki
gochen dang tré gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Aparājita, the vajra queen Śaryātī,7 and the emanated
deities, the jackal- and hawk-headed8 hybrids.

om benza krodha amritakundali hung tsindha tsindha hung pé | om benza krodhi sajamiti hung |
om benza simhamukha hung | om benza titilamukhi hung
oṃ vajrakrodha-amṛtakuṇḍali hūṃ chindha chindha hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī-savyamiti hūṃ | oṃ
vajra-simha-mukha hūṃ | oṃ vajra-titīla-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo dütsi khyilwa dang dorjé lhamo dra dzé ma dang trulpé lhamo tramenma sengé gochen
dang pawang gi gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Amṛtakuṇḍali, the vajra queen Śabdamayī,9 and the
emanated deities, the lion- and bat-headed hybrids.

om benza krodha trailokyavidzaya hung bindha bindha hung pé | om benza krodhi maraya hung |
om benza rakshisa mukha hung | om benza nakulamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodha-trailokyavijaya hūṃ bindha bindha hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī-māraya hūṃ | oṃ
vajra-tarakṣī-mukha hūṃ | oṃ vajra-nakula-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo jikten sum lé nampar gyalwa dang dorjé lhamo sö jé ma dang trulpé lhamo tramenma
dré kyi gochen dang semö gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Trailokyavijaya, the vajra queen Mārayā, and the
emanated deities, the hyena- and mongoose-headed hybrids.

om benza krodha mahabala hung sapota sapota hung pé | om benza krodhi munde mam hung | om benza
rakshasa mukha hung | om benza kashikamukhi hung
oṃ vajra-krodha-mahābala hūṃ sphoṭa sphoṭa hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ vajrakrodhī-cuṇḍama hūṃ | oṃ vajra-ṛkṣa-mukha
hūṃ | oṃ vajra-kaṣīkā-mukhi hūṃ |
di ni trowo tobpo ché dang dorjé lhamo rikjema dang trulpé lhamo tramenma dom gyi gochen dang
jiwé gochen no
These are the mantras for the wrathful king Mahābala, the vajra queen Cundī,10 and the emanated
deities, the bear- and bird-headed11 hybrids.

om benza yakshasada hung dza | om benza bairavé hung hung | om benza amrita hung bam | om benza
marani hung ho
oṃ vajra-yakṣasada hūṃ jaḥ | oṃ vajra-bhairave hūṃ hūṃ | oṃ vajrāmṛta hūṃ vaṃ | oṃ vajra-māraṇi
hūṃ hoḥ |
di ni shar du pushü kyi gochen dang lhorja rok gi gochen dang nub tu sinjé gochen dang jang
du tré gochen no
These are the mantras for the hoopoe-headed goddess in the east, the magpie-headed goddess in
the south, the owl-headed goddess in the west, and the hawk-headed goddess in the north.12

khorwa purbu drub döndu
Come now we pray, O deities of wisdom wrath,
wang dang jinlab tsolwé chir
So that we may receive empowerment and accomplishment
yeshe trowo shek su sol
In order to accomplish saṃsāra as Vajrakīla.
yeshe trowo shek né kyang
And having come, O deities of wisdom wrath,
tak dang tsenma tenpa dang
Reveal the signs and marks of accomplishment,
purpé ngödrub tsal du sol
And bestow upon us the blessings of Kīla!

damtsik chenpö dü la bab
The time for the great samaya has come!13
trulpa chenpö dü la bab
The time for the great emanations has come!14
ponya chenpö dü la bab
The time for the great emissaries has come!15
daknyi chenpö dü la bab
The time for the great sovereigns has come!16
sadak chenmö dü la bab
The time for the great territorial goddesses has come!17
khyi yi dongchen dü la bab
The time for the śvanmukhā goddesses has come!18
dralwar jawé dü la bab
The time to liberate is now!

changchub chok tu semkyé né
Having generated the mind bent on awakening,
dü sum sangye sé shyindu
We vidyādharas follow the heirs
rigdzin dakchak nam la ni
Of the buddhas throughout the three times
nö ching dukpé dra dang gek
And use the blessings of the great wrathful king himself
dü dang bardu chöpa nam
To immediately summon here before us
trowo chenpö jinlab kyi
All enemies, hostile forces, demons and obstructors,
yütsam gyi ni dé kuk né
Who cause us harm and show us spite,
ngönchö tsul gyi dralwa dang
Subjugating and liberating them all.
lü ngak chemar dzé né kyang
With their bodies and speech ground to dust,
dukngal nyam su nyongwar dzö
Let them experience great suffering.
om lam hung lam tom bhayanen | mohang ghataya bhagavan | hrih sri vikrita benza hungkara hung
| om benza kili kilaya dza hung bam ho | sarva bighanen benza kili kilaya hung pé
oṃ laṃ hūṃ laṃ stambhanaṃ mohaṃ ghātaya bhagavān hrīḥ stṝh vikṛta vajra-hūṃkāra hūṃ | oṃ vajrakīli
kīlaya jaḥ hūṃ vaṃ hoḥ | sarva-vighnān vajrakīli kīlaya hūṃ phaṭ |

gek jepa yi dü nam dang
The demons who harm us,
dukngal sem la nyamjor ba
The demons who torment our minds,
ché gemo shyejawé dü
And the demons by the name of so-and-so
zung shik dung shik nampar ching
Are seized, struck down, and bound.
tok shik drok dang yewar gyi
They are identified and separated from their allies.
ring né khuk la ma ru chuk
Having been summoned from afar, they shall obey!
pob chik nampar zirwar gyi
They are taken down and severely tortured!
dak gi wang du jé gyur né
Now that they have fallen under our dominion,
gowé kanyen güpar gyi
They bow to our commands and swear us their allegiance.
hung paravidya tsindha tsindha hung pé | bindha bindha hung pé | grihana grihana hung pé | bhenda
bhenda hung pé | trashaya trashaya hung pé | hasayara hasayara hrih danda hung pé |
shighram anaya hung pé | dzalapaya dzalapaya hung pé | abeshaya abeshaya hung pé | bindhaya
bindhaya hung pé
hūṃ paravidyā chindha chindha hūṃ phaṭ | bindha bindha hūṃ phaṭ | gṛhna gṛhna hūṃ phaṭ | bandha
bandha hūṃ phaṭ | trāśaya trāśaya hūṃ phaṭ | hasayara hasayara hrīḥ danḍa hūṃ phaṭ | śīghram
ānaya hūṃ phaṭ | jvalāpaya jvalāpaya hūṃ phaṭ | āveśaya āveśaya hūṃ phaṭ | bindhaya
bindhaya hūṃ phaṭ |

ponya dren dang ngakpé tsok
Emissaries, servants, and messengers,19
khyö kyi tukdam dü la bab
The time has come to fulfil your oaths!
ngönchö jitar ngepa dang
Enact your wrathful subjugating activities as we desire,
ngönchö jinlab deshyin dzö
And grant your blessings so that they are accomplished!
hana hana benza | daha daha benza | patsa patsa benza | mata mata benza | dzala dzala benza
suru suru benza | muru muru benza | katakatayé dzayé vidzayé adzité aparadzité maraséna pramardani
hung pé
hana hana vajra | daha daha vajra | paca paca vajra | matha matha vajra | jvala jvala vajra
| suru suru vajra | muru muru vajra | kaṭaṅkaṭe jaye vijaye ajite aparājite māra-sena-pramardani
hūṃ phaṭ |

dorjé sangwé kalung lé
The great kings of mighty wrath
dikchen gangshyik da jepa
Will shatter into a hundred pieces
tobchen trowo chenpo yi
The heads of any wicked being
gowo tsalpa gya ru gyi
Who transgresses the Secret Vajra command!
nyön chik gek dang lokdren nam
Listen, all you obstructors and false guides,
nga yi ka lé da ma jé
Transgress my commands you shall not!
hung mama washam kuru
hūṃ mama vaśaṃ kuru |

duk ching dang sem denpa nam
Leave now, all you malicious and arrogant beings,
sö chik lhamin lha yang rung
No matter whether you be gods or demons!
nga lawar chö jepé dü
Any demon who happens to create obstacles
tu dang dzutrul mepar dzö
Shall be deprived of all their strength and powers!
sarva anaya hung pé | tataya tataya hung pé
sarvānaya hūṃ phaṭ | tathāya tathāya hūṃ phaṭ |

dung shik dorjé barwé tün
Any evil being who transgresses my commands
ka lé da jé dikchen nam
Shall be pounded by the blazing vajra pestle.
dorjé mé yi nying sek né
Their hearts will be incinerated by vajra fire
lü sem dul shyin lakpar dzö
And their bodies and minds reduced to dust.
tromo barwé tün khung du
As they are pounded with vajra hammers
dorjé towé dung jé né
In the blazing mortars of the wrathful mothers,
lha yang rung té dralwar ja
Even the most powerful of gods will be liberated!
khatam khatam khatam | hung hung hung | pé pé pé | benza yakshakrodha kha kha | khahi khahi
| ha ha | hung hung | pé pé |
khataṃ khataṃ khataṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ phaṭ vajra-yakṣa-krodha kha kha khāhi khāhi ha ha
hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ |

chönyi kyi denpa o sang ngak kyi jin gyi lab kyi jin gyi lab so sangye kyi jin gyi lab kyi tur
gyur ro nakpa dé khona nyi do
Such is the truth of dharmatā! May we receive the blessings of Secret Mantra! May we accrue
might through the buddhas’ blessings! May we remain dedicated to suchness!
Recite the kīlaya twenty-one times!20 After the eighteenth repetition of the kīlaya, you will
have reached the juncture of good and evil within your heart.
hung hung hung | ho ho ho | pé pé pé |
hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ | ho ho ho | phaṭ phaṭ phaṭ |
This is what is to be recited.
A Section of the Vajrakīla Root Tantra was translated, edited, and finalized by the illustrious
Sakya Paṇḍita based on the personal Indic manuscript of master Padmasambhava himself in
Shang Sekshing in the district of Yeru.21
When a few lotsāwas, such as Gö and Chak,22 cast doubts on the Secret Mantra tradition of the
Early Translation, the great Drokmi23 said that the eight-syllable ‘rulu’ mantra24 had been
inscribed above the entrance archway to the Vajra Seat25 and that he had seen fragments
of the Śrī Heruka and Vajrakīla texts amongst the text collections of a few paṇḍitas, although
they claimed not to have any instructions for them. In light of this some scholars
suggested that the paṇḍitas and adepts of the later period clearly practised the essence of
the Early Translation tantras as extremely secret yidam deities. In particular, the great
master Padmasambhava directly transmitted the instructions on the Single Lamp of Śrī Heruka26
to the Kashmiri Mahāpaṇḍita Śākyaśrī27 and they were translated by Lotsāwa Rabchok Pal.28
In addition, when Jamgön Sakya Paṇḍita was residing at the monastery of Sekshing in
Shang, a yogi offered him a Sanskrit manuscript. As soon as Sakya Paṇḍita saw the manuscript
he realized that it was undoubtedly a section of the Vajrakīla root tantra which had belonged
to the precious master Padmasambhava himself. Thus, he said, “It is of exceptional
fortunate to have come upon a wish-fulfilling gem such as this. Take this manuscript and wait
on the hillside down there. We will prepare a welcoming ceremony.” Then, Sakya Paṇḍita
himself presided over an immense assembly and, accompanied by cloud banks of offerings, welcomed
the scripture in a vast ceremony. He translated the scripture himself, and the disputed
scriptures of the Early Translation, Śrī Heruka and Vajrakīla, thereafter became as
indisputable as the sun and moon. Thus Sakya Paṇḍita created the auspicious conditions for
the vast spread of these scriptures’ awakened activity.
This colophon was added by Padma Ösal Dongak Lingpa.29 Sarvadā kalyāṇa bhavatu!

Oṃ svasti! This section of the royal root tantra containing the heart essence
Of the hundred thousand sections of the Sublime Knowledge tantra of Vajrakīla,30
Which the great Sakya Paṇḍita has excellently translated,
Shines likes the sun upon the scholars and practitioners of India and Tibet.
Through the virtuous power present in the publishing of this text,
May the demonic enemies who harm the teachings be annihilated!
May the traditions of teaching the scriptures and accomplishing realization flourish!
May we attain the state of the four kāyas!
Sarvadā maṅgalaṃ!31

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang and Lowell Cook), 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rdo rje phur pa rtsa ba’i rgyud kyi dum bu" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 5: 311–320

Version: 1.2-20211116
↑ These are the mantras for the principal deity Vajrakīla and his consort Dīptacakrā.↑ Each
of the wrathful kings and their consorts is accompanied by a couple of a male and a female
emanated deity (sprul pa’i lha mo). The male deities, called ‘devourers’ (za byed pa), have
mostly carnivores’ heads and the female deities, called ‘slayers’ (gsod byed ma), mostly
have bird’s heads. The Tibetan words ‘phra men pha’ and ‘phra men ma’ here translated as
‘hybrid’ appear to be old translations of the Sanskrit words ḍāka or ḍākinī. Since these
deities appear to be a special type of ḍāka or ḍākinī characterized by their animal heads,
we have translated the terms here as ‘hybrid’.↑ The Sanskrit appears to be corrupted.↑ The
mantra reads muhala which is likely a corruption of musala (gtun, pestle).↑ The mantra reads
preta which is likely a corruption of prītu (khwa).↑ The Tibetan reads gtum po which
usually translates caṇḍālī, fierce. Jayatī would be translated as rgyal ba, victorious.↑ The
Sanskrit appears to be corrupted.↑ The Sanskrit appears to be corrupted but could denote
a jackdaw (pañcama-kāka).↑ A tentative reconstruction of the Sanskrit.↑ The Tibetan reads
rig(s) byed ma. Cundī would be translated as skul byed ma.↑ Kaṣīkā is a pied avocet. The
Sanskrit could also be kaśīkā, a weasel.↑ That is, the four gatekeepers.↑ Vajrakīla and his
consort.↑ The ten wrathful ones.↑ Then twenty hybrids and four gatekeepers.↑ The four great
sovereigns (mahātmā, bdag nyid chen po).↑ The four great territorial goddesses (mahābhūmipatī,
sa bdag chen mo, also called the bse mo goddesses).↑ The four ‘dog-headed’ goddesses
(śvanmukhā, khyi yi gdong can).↑ According to Jamgön Kongtrul, with “emissaries, servants
and messengers” all the deities of the Vajrakīla maṇḍala are called upon.↑ That is Vajrakīla’s
root mantra “oṃ vajra-kīli kīlaya sarva-vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ”.↑ Yeru (g.yas ru)
is in eastern Tsang.↑ That is Gö Lotsāwa Shönu Pal (‘gos lo tsā ba gzhon nu dpal, 1392–1481)
and Chak Lotsāwa Chöjé Pal (chag lo tsā ba chos rje dpal, 1197–1265).↑ Drokmi Lotsāwa (’brog
mi lo tsā ba, 992–1072/1074) was a renowned translator of the early Sarma period.↑ That
is, the mantra of Śrī Heruka or Yangdak Heruka, one of the yidam deities of the Nyingma
school. The full mantra reads: “oṃ ru lu ru lu hūṃ bhyoḥ hūṃ”.↑ That is, Bodh Gayā.↑ Given
that Guru Padmasambhava had already left Tibet and India by the time that Śākyaśrī lived,
it’s likely that Padmasambhava transmitted these teachings to Śākyaśrī in a vision.↑ Śākyaśrī
or Śākyaśrībhadra (~1127–1225) was a major Kashmiri sūtra and yoginītantra commentator.
He travelled together with nine paṇḍitas to Tibet in 1204 at the invitation of Tropu
Lotsāwa Rinchen Sengé (khro phu lo tsā ba rin chen seng+ge, b. 1173). He remained for ten
years in Tibet, during which time he gave many empowerments and teachings. Likely around 1204,
he met Sakya Paṇḍita (1182–1251). In 1214 Śākyaśrī returned to Kashmir. The Tengyur lists
23 works attributed to him as an author, some of which are translated here: https://www.lotsawahouse.org/indian-masters/shakyashribhadra/↑
The translation of Śākyaśrī’s works
into Tibetan was mainly done by the lotsāwas Rabchok Palzang (rab mchog dpal bzang, ?) and
Champa Pal (byams pa dpal, 1173–1225).↑ That is, Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo.↑ The Sublime Knowledge
of Vajrakīla or Vidyottama Tantra is one of the main Vajrakīla tantras.↑ This aspiration
prayer for publishing the Vajrakīla Root Tantra Section was likely added by Jamyang
Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö.