Bestowing the Splendour of All That is Desirable: Fire Offering for the 'Neck-Pouch Dagger’
(Purba Gulkhukma) Cycle
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

Namo guruye!
Now, arrange whatever offering substances you have collected and recite:
ho, döyön drukden chöpé dzé
Ho. These offering substances that delight the six senses,
ngowo zakmé yeshe la
Which are, in essence, immaculate wisdom
nampa kunzang chöpé trin
And in appearance, the offering clouds of Samantabhadra,
palchen nyepé trin du shar
Arise, billowing, to delight the great and glorious Heruka.
Bless the substances with Oṃ āḥ hūṃ ho.
Light the fire and recite:
ram, yeshe melha gökarmo
Raṃ. Agnideva, deity of wisdom fire, and Pāṇḍaravāsinī—
kalpé mé tar barwé long
Blazing expanse like the fires at the end of the aeon,
palchen dorjé sinpö ku
Great and glorious heruka in the form of a Vajrarakṣa,
rab jik benza kilaya
Awesome, fearsome Vajrakīla,
gyen dang chaluk yongdzokpé
Complete with all your ornaments and accoutrements,
dorjé wangpö drongkhyer du
In the citadel of vajra power,
döyön longchö gyen du rol
Enjoy as adornments these sensory pleasures and delights:
gyé shing tukdam kong gyur chik
May they please and satisfy you!
dak gi yi la gang döpé
Swiftly bring about our aims,
dön nam nyurdu drubpar dzö
Whatever we wish for in our minds!
om benza kilaya sa pa ri wa ra maha pudza khahi khahi sarva siddhi pala hung
Oṃ vajra kīlaya sapārivāra mahāpūja khāhi khāhi sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Accumulate this as many times as possible. Then, at the end, consider that the front visualization,
support and supported, dissolves into you, so that you gain attainments equal to those
of the great and glorious Heruka. Then dedicate the virtue toward enlightenment.

When this arose spontaneously in the awareness expanse of Pema Wangchen Gyepé Dorje, while in
the presence of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, supreme lord of refuge, on the 26th day of
the fifth month of the Iron Horse year (1990) in the seventeenth calendrical cycle, His Holiness
wrote down the words. May this bring virtue to all!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.