Daily Practice of Vajrakīla
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Taking Refuge and Generating Bodhicitta
lama palchen shyitrö lhar
In the guru, the glorious heruka, embodiment of all peaceful and wrathful deities,
güpé kyab chi sem chok kyé
I devotedly take refuge, and I generate the mind of awakening.
Main Visualization
hung, dorjé deshyin nyi ying lé
Hūṃ! Out of the indestructible basic space of suchness,
nyingjé i gal da la tröpé
Through anger toward the enemies of compassion,
nyönmong shyedang tsön chen ni
The great weapon of emotional wrath
hung yik ngönpö tikpar shar
Arises as the mark of the blue syllable hūṃ.
denyi yong gyur kechik gi
In an instant it is transformed,
pé nyi lha chön pomö teng
And, standing upon lotus, sun-disc and male and female mahādevas,
rangrig dorjé shyönnu ni
My own rigpa is Vajrakumāra—the youthful Vajrakīla—
tingnak u sum chak drukpa
Dark blue with three faces and six arms,
yé nyi tsé gu tsé nga dang
The two on the right holding nine- and five-pronged vajras,
yön nyi mepung khatam ga
The two on the left, a mass of flames and a khaṭvāṅga,
ta nyi pur dril yum la khyü
And the last two wielding the kīla and embracing the consort.
ku ché yenlak rakpa dang
His huge body and mighty limbs
pal dang durtrö ché kyi gyen
Are arrayed in the heruka and cemetery ornaments,
yeshe mé ö long na shyuk
As he presides amidst the blazing brilliance of wisdom fire.
né sum yikdru sum gyi tsen
At his three centres are the three seed syllables.
damyé yermé chenpor sal
Samayasattva and jñānasattva clearly merge inseparably into one.
nying ü benza sato yi
In the centre of his heart is Vajrasattva,
tukkar nyidé ga'u nang
In whose heart, in a locket of sun and moon,
hung ngön ngak kyi trengwé tsen
Is the blue syllable hūṃ surrounded by the mantra garland,
ö trö pak chö drib kün jang
From which rays of light radiate in all directions, making offerings to the exalted ones and
purifying all obscurations,
nöchü kyilkhor sum du shar
So that the environment and its inhabitants arise as the three maṇḍalas.
om benza kili kilaya sarwa bighanen bam hung pé | dza hung a
oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya sarva vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ | jaḥ hūṃ āḥ
Recite the mantra, then continue with:
lhar nangö sal ying su tim
Perception of the deity dissolves into the basic space of luminosity.
laryang nyukmé ku ru dang
Then again, I arise in the deity’s genuine form.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Safeguard the practice in this way, then dedicate the merit.

Chökyi Lodrö composed this to fulfil the wishes of Sogyal, little son of the Lakar family.

Kunzang Chödrön respectfully had printed this sādhana of Kīlaya,The embodiment of all the victorious
ones' strength-in-activity—A text that contains the concentrated blessings of kama
and terma.May this bring victory over all that hinders the teachings and beings!Thus Maṅgala
prayed. Śrī jayantu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey 2019, with reference to an earlier version by Rigpa Translations.

Source: 'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "phur pa'i rgyun khyer/" in gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu med/). TBRC W21813. 8 vols. gangtok: dzongsar khyentse labrang, 1981-1985.
http://tbrc.org/link?RID=W21813 Vol. 3: 227–228