Entrusting Activity
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok
Arrange a torma adorned with meat and alcohol in a precious vessel and bless it with the sky-treasury
mantra.
kyé ngöntsé wang drak pema heruké
Kyé! In the past, the powerful, wrathful Padma Heruka
a sura yi drakpuk ga la war
In the place known as Asura Cave,
dü jor chunyi né su dakpé zuk
Empowered you, pure embodiments of the twelve constellations,
pursung damchen mamo chunyi la
As the twelve mātṛkā, oath-bound guardians of kīlaya,
wangkur dam nö trinlé nyerté pé
And entrusted you with commitments and activity.
tatsik nyenpo jesu dren dzö la
Now remember your solemn pledge!
damdzé pal gyi torma di shyé né
Accept this samaya substance, the splendid torma,
dro kün dé shying kyipé trinlé dzö
And act to bring joy and happiness to all beings!
tama ngakchang dorjé düjom la
When the all-pervasive Lord Mañjuśrī, Loden Choksé,
khyabdak jampal loden chok sé kyi
Conferred the great empowerment into the power of awareness,
rigpa tsal gyi wangchen kur dü su
Upon the mantra-holder Dorje Dudjom,
dzamling sengchen norbu dradul tsal
The great lion of this world, Norbu Dradül Tsal,
patul dangmen sungmé tsok nam kyi
Together with hosts of warriors, maidens and guardians,
chi chol lé nam drubpar khelangpé
Promised to carry out whatever activities were requested of you.
tatsik nyenpo jesu dren dzö la
Now remember your solemn pledge!
damdzé pal gyi torma di shyé né
Accept this samaya substance, the splendid torma,
gangchen kyab chik mik mi dzumpé gar
And for the sole refuge of the Snowy Land, the lord of unblinking gaze,1
kutsé ten ching dzetrin chok chur gyé
Let his life be secure and long and his activity flourish in every direction!
naljor dakchak pönlob khor ché kyi
For us yogis and those around us, the teacher and students,
tsar chok jesu dzinpé trinlé kün
Let all the activities of subjugation and acceptance
ma tok danta nyi du ngön chung la
Be carried out about unimpededly here and now,
ten dang dro la penpé dön drub dzö
And let the goal of benefitting the teachings and beings be secured!
samaya ho
Samaya ho!
Provoked by a minor circumstance, Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé spoke these words in the Asura Cave
in Nepal and the diligent vow-keeper and upholder of the Tripiṭaka Khenpo Namdrol wrote them
down.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.
↑ i.e., H.H. the Fourteenth Dalai Lama.