Inlaid Jewels: Addenda to the 'Neck-Pouch Dagger’ (Purba Gulkhukma) Cycle
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

The Stages of Conclusion
Offering
hung, nyamnyi mi yo nyampé sangye la
Hūṃ. In the enlightened state of even and unmoving equality,
ngen tok tsenmé chöyul gangyang mé
There is no room for ordinary concepts or negative thoughts.
zungdzin tsenma kün lé depa yi
Thus, transcending all ordinary patterns of dualistic grasping,
nyampa chenpö chöpa nampar rol
May you perfectly enjoy this offering of great equality.
maha pudza ho
mahāpūjaho

Praise:
hung, shintu duk ching tumpa la
For the utterly malevolent and hostile,
shyiwé penpar mingyur té
Peaceful means are of no benefit,
trowo deshyin shek ku dzé
And tathāgatas appear in wrathful form—
dorjé du tro jé la tö
To the producer of vajra emanations, I offer praise.

Receving the attainments:
hung, dorjé shyönnü rigdzin nam
Hūṃ. Vidyādharas of Vajrakumāra:
sipa dorjé drub dzö chik
Cause us to actualize the Vajra of existence!
sipa dorjé purbü lha
Deities of the existential Vajrakīla:
yeshe trowo drubpar dzö
Cause us to actualize the wisdom wrath!
om benza kili kilaya sarva siddhi pala hung
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya sarva siddhi phala hūṃ

lha nang mi du shyenpamé
The appearance of the deity does not dissolve, but without grasping,
chönyi nyampé ngang du lö
Simply relaxes within the experience of dharmatā equality.
tsok druk nang tok rolpa kün
The play of thoughts and the perceptions of the six senses
riktong yeshe gyen du shar
Arises as the adornment of the wisdom of awareness and emptiness.
a a a
Ah, ah, ah.

Dedication of Merit
gewa di tsön dü sum lek jé kün
As symbolized by this virtue, may all the positive deeds of the three times
khakhyab drowé gyü la yong min né
Fully ripen in the minds of all beings who extend throughout the whole of space,
kün kyang rik kyi tso dang yermé par
And, inseparable from the principal deity of the buddha family,
rangnang kyilkhor ngön du gyurwar shok
May they all actualize the maṇḍala of spontaneous appearance!

Words of Auspiciousness
ho, palchen yongdzok trinlé chik gi ngang
Ho! Within the experience of the unique enlightened activity of the perfect great and glorious,
tukjé tab kyi si sum dukpa dul
The malicious spirits of the three worlds are tamed through compassionate means,
gang dul dzepé chotrul sam mikhyab
The inconceivable miraculous activity of taming by whatever is necessary—
chomden dorjé shyönnü tashi shok
May the accomplished conqueror Vajrakumāra grant auspiciousness!

On the 28th day of the sixth month of the Iron Horse year, Pema Wangchen Dorje composed this
as it flowed from the expanse of awareness. There would appear to be a wonderfully auspicious
significance here, because the text appeared in reverse order, from the end to the beginning.
May virtue and goodness abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.