The Accomplishment of Supreme Enlightened Activity
A Recitation Manual for The Vajrakīla Root Tantra Fragment
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namaḥ śrī-vajrakumārāya
I. Preliminaries
If you wish to recite The Royal Vajrakīla Root Tantra Fragment, begin by taking refuge and generating
bodhicitta:
lama palchen shyitrö lha
In the guru, the glorious heruka, embodiment of all peaceful and wrathful deities,
khandrö tsok la kyab su chi
And the assembly of ḍākinīs, I take refuge.
shyendön changchub nyur tob chir
In order to swiftly reach awakening for others sake,
gyü kyi gyalpo lakpar gyi
I will recite the king of tantras.
Three times.
II. Main Part
ah, dorjé tongpanyi kyi ying
Āḥ. From within the indestructible basic space of emptiness,
nyingjé gyuma rangsharwé
Naturally arises illusory compassion.
rigpa tsön chen hung tingnak
My own awareness appears as the great weapon, a blue syllable hūṃ.
yong gyur pé nyi lhachen teng
[In an instant] it is transformed, and, standing upon lotus, sun-disc and mahādevas, is
dorjé shyönnu namkhé dok
Vajrakumāra, the colour of the sky,
ting kar marwé shyal sumpa
With three faces—blue, white and red—
yé nyi tsé gu tsé nga dang
And six hands—the two on the right holding nine- and five- pronged vajras,
yön nyi mepung khatam nam
The two on the left wielding a blazing fireball and khaṭvāṅga,
tamé rirab purbu dril
And the last two rolling a kīla-dagger the size of Mount Meru.
pal dang durtrö ché kyi gyen
He is adorned with the heruka and charnel-ground ornaments,
yumchen khorlo gyendebma
And in union with his consort Dīptacakrā,
utpal dungtrak nampé khyü
Who holds an utpala flower and a skull-cup filled with blood,
yeshe mepung long na shyuk
As he presides amidst the blazing brilliance of wisdom fire.

tukkar ö kyi gurkhyim du
In his heart, in the centre of a dome of light,
dorjé sempa tsön gangwa
Presides Vajrasattva, the size of a thumb.
dé yi tukkar pé nyi teng
Within his heart, upon a sun- and moon-disc,
hung ngön taktu charwa sal
Rests an ever-shining blue hūṃ.
damtsik yeshe nyisumé
Samayasattva and jñānasattva are indivisible.
wangkur döné rangché dzok
The empowerment, naturally bestowed, is ever-perfect.

tuk sok hung lé gyü kyi dra
From the syllable hūṃ the sound of the tantra reverberates.
chöying khyabpar tröpa yi
As the sound permeates the all-encompassing space of phenomena,
tsa sum gyalwa rabjam chö
It makes offerings to the infinite victors of the three roots,
rik druk tenyö bakchak jong
And purifies the latent tendencies of the animate and inanimate world of the six classes of
beings.
tamché dakpa yidam ku
All appearances are the pristine form of the yidam deity.
dra drak dorjé gyü kyi dra
All sounds are the sounds of the vajra-tantra,
rangrig kyemé chik tu dzok
All is perfected within unborn natural awareness –
dakpa rabjam ngang né lak
I will recite the tantra while resting in the natural state of infinite purity.
om benza dzi ha
oṃ vajra-jihā
Repeat this mantra three times in order to consecrate your tongue as vajra. Then recite the
king of tantras. At the end, recite the root mantra1 as many times as you can. Finally, in
order to secure the blessings, conclude by reciting the vowels and consonants, the ye-dharma
and the hundred-syllable mantra three times.

kham sum semchen tamché kün
Through the reverberation of the vajra-tantra
dorjé gyü kyi dra drakpé
May all beings of the three realms
trul tok dü shyi kün chom né
Conquer the four māras of delusory thoughts and
kyemé chöku ngöngyur shok
Actualize the unborn dharmakāya.

lha nang riktong ying su tim
The appearances of the deities dissolve into the expanse of empty awareness.
yingrik dralmé chakgyar shar
The union of space and awareness arises as the deity’s form.
benza ka wa tsi raksha hang
vajra-kāya-vāk-citta rakṣa hūṃ
Recite this to protect the three places and don the armour.

om, ying kyi ngowo chöku dorjé sem
Oṃ. Essence of space, dharmakāya Vajrasattva,
rigpa rangnang benza kumara
Natural display of awareness, Vajrakumāra,
yingrik zungjuk tsa gyü lama yi
Union of space and awareness, root and lineage masters
choktün gelek drubpé tashi shok
Grant your blessings so that all may be auspicious for accomplishing the excellent common and
supreme siddhis!
Recite this to bring auspiciousness.

At the request of Chokden,2 a student of mine who possesses faith, pure samaya, intelligence
and virtue, I, Chökyi Lodrö, composed this text. May it become a cause of virtue and auspiciousness!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang) with reference to an earlier translation by Gyurme
Avertin, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "phur pa rtsa dum kyi bklags thabs phrin las mchog grub/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
W1KG12986 Vol. 5: 320–322
↑ That is “oṃ vajra-kīli-kīlaya sarva-vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ”.↑ Lama Chokden (bla ma mchog ldan)
was from Tsechu Monastery in Nangchen, East Tibet. He was Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö’s
master of ceremonies and later became one of Dzongsar Khyentse Rinpoche’s tutors.