The Single Mind Kīla Practice, Part of the 'Neck-Pouch Dagger’ (Purba Gulkhukma) Cycle
by Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok

Namo guru deva ḍākkiye!
1. Empowerment
Here, when bestowing empowerment on a fortunate individual, first generate the deity in an image
of the great and glorious one, a torma or a kīla. Then, the student should make the following
request:
kyé, tab kyi chöpé dro döndu
Kyé! So that through the conduct of skilful means for beings' benefit,
jam dang nyingjé gang dulwa
For those to be trained through loving kindness and compassion,
sangye trinlé dzok dzé chir
The buddhas' enlightened activity may be brought to completion,
jinlab wangkur tsal du sol
Please bestow your blessings and confer the empowerment!
This request is repeated three times. Then the guru responds:
nyingjé dralwé damtsik ni
The samaya of liberating through compassion
sé ching nenpa mayin té
Involves neither killing nor suppressing.
pungpo dorjér tam jé chir
So that the aggregates may be transformed into vajra,
kalden khyö nyi minpar ja
I shall ripen you, the fortunate one!
Then the student pledges to maintain the samaya commitment:
rangrig lha la kyab su chi
In the deity of my own awareness, I take refuge.
dro kün drolwar semkyé do
To liberate all beings, I generate bodhicitta.
palchen drubpé damtsik nam
The commitment to accomplish the great and glorious heruka,
sok gi chir yang mi tong ngo
I shall never forsake, even at the cost of my life.
samaya nara ken
Samaya narakan!
The students visualize themselves as Vajrakumāra. Then recite the following:
hung, sipé purbu drubpa dang
Hūṃ. To accomplish the kīla of existence
wang dang ngödrub langwé chir
And receive empowerment and accomplishment,
yeshe trowo shek su sol
Come now, you of wisdom wrath, I pray:
yeshe trowo shek né kyang
And, having come,
tak dang tsenma tenpa dang
Show the signs and marks of accomplishment
kilaya yi jin pob chik
And cause the blessings of Kīlaya to shower down!
om benza kili kilaya sa pa ri wa ra benza samaya dza dza abeshaya pem pem tishta benza
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya sapārivāra vajra samaya ja ja abheshaya pheṃ pheṃ  tiṣṭha vajra
Thus touch an actual vajra or the related mudrā to the crown of the head. Then follows the actual
bestowal of empowerment:
hung, tsenma dzé kyi purbu la ten né
Hūṃ. On the basis of the symbolic material kīla,
kyerim lha yi purbu sal dak ten
The deity kīla of the generation stage is vivid, pure and stable,
dzokrim changsem purbur rangwang jor
There is mastery over the bodhicitta kīla of the perfection stage,
rigpé purbü khordé tong sok ché
And the awareness-kīla of awareness penetrates the hollow life-force of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—
palchen ku sung tuk kyi wang tob shok
Thus may you receive the empowerment of the enlightened body, speech and mind of the great and
glorious heruka!
om benza kili kilaya kaya wakka tsitta sarva a bhi kentsa hung
Oṃ vajra kīla kīlaya kāya vāk citta sarva abhiṣiñca hūṃ!
Recite verses of auspiciousness and prayers of aspiration in the general manner.
Simply receiving this empowerment will bring victory in the battle over the obstacle-making
māras and the swift fulfilment of all wishes. Samaya.

2. Stage of Sādhana
tongpé ngang lé rangnyi kechik gi
Out of the state of emptiness, in an instant I appear
palchen dorjé shyönnu trowö gyal
As the great and glorious Vajrakumāra, king of the wrathful—
tingnak shyal chik chak nyi purbu dril
Dark blue, with one face and two hands rolling a kīla,
pal dang durtrö rolpé ché kyi gyen
Adorned with the heruka and charnel ground accoutrements,
pema nyida rudra pomö teng
Stood on lotus, sun and moon and male and female rudras,
shyab nyi gyé kyi dortab tsul du shyuk
With two legs wide apart in a striding posture,
yeshe mepung barwé long na sal
And radiant within an expanse of blazing wisdom fire.
nangwa tamché lha yi dal
All appearances are the maṇḍala of the deity.
dra drak ngak kyi rolpar shar
All sounds arise as the play of mantra.
dren tok ösal chönyi ngang
All thoughts are the experience of clear light, the dharmatā nature.
ma yeng dzinmé ngak di da
Undistractedly and without grasping, I recite the mantra:
om benza kili kilaya hung pé
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya hūṃ phaṭ
Recite the mantra one hundred, one thousand, ten thousand or one hundred thousand times or until
receiving a sign of realization. Once the four transfixions are perfected you will become
inseparable from the principal deity of the buddha family. Samaya.

3. Stage of Gaṇacakra Offering
hung, chönyi ying kyi kapalar
Hūṃ. Within the kapāla of the absolute space of dharmatā,
khordé chö kün tsok su sham
All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are arranged as ingredients of the feast.
ram yam kham gi sek tong trü
With raṃ, yaṃ and khaṃ, they are burnt, dispersed and washed clean,
ah hung gi jang pel gyur
And with oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ, they are purified, multiplied and transformed.
ram yam kham ah hung
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ. Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The Gaṇacakra Offering
hung, lamé chok gi chöpa dampa ni
Hūṃ. This supreme, unsurpassable sacred offering
yeshe nga yi özer nampar tro
Radiates rays of five-coloured wisdom light
döpé yönten nga yi rab gyenpa
And is adorned with the five qualities of desirable sense objects:
damtsik shyindu chi der shyé su sol
Come now, accept what you wish in accordance with the samaya commitments!
maha gana tsatra pudza khahi
Mahā gaṇacakra puja khāhi
Enjoy the feast and perform song and dance.
Then there is the dedication of the remainder:
hung, dren dang kanyen ponyé tsok
Hūṃ. Hosts of servants, attendants and messengers,
lhakmé torma di shyé la
Accept this torma of the remainders,
drubpé galkyen salwa dang
Dispel all circumstances that prevent accomplishment,
tünkyen yishyin drubpar dzö
And bring about favourable, conducive conditions!
Thus, dedicate the offering.
I, the self-arisen Lotus King, entrust this, the ultimate essence of the whole Vidyottama Tantra,
to you, Jinamitra. Do not neglect it, but put it into practice. In future, at the very
end of time, one who is your own emanation will encounter this and safeguard the teachings.
Samaya.

Thus in the secluded Asura cave at Yangleshö in Nepal, Pema Wangchen Gyepé Dorje dictated this
while recollecting a former life and a monk from the noble land of India committed it to
writing.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.