Vajrakīla Prayer: A Rain of Accomplishments
revealed by Gyarong Khandro & recorded by Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche

emaho
Emaho!
chöying dewa chenpö podrang né
Out of the dharmadhātu palace of great bliss,
chöku kunzang yabyum la solwa deb
The dharmakāya Samantabhadra and consort, to I pray:
dömé neluk tokpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so I may realise the primordial nature!

ngepa ngaden longkü shyingkham né
Out of the sambhogakāya realm of the five certainties,
longku garab dorjé la solwa deb
The sambhogakāya Garab Dorje, to you I pray:
ösal gyünché mepar jing gyi lob
Grant your blessings so that clear light is uninterrupted!

ngayab zangdok palri podrang né
Out of the glorious Copper-Coloured Mountain of Chāmara,
tulku pema jungné la solwa deb
The nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, to you I pray:
chimé tsewang tobpar jing gyi lob
Grant your blessings so I may be empowered with immortal life!

drusum tingnak barwé shyalyé né
Out of the blazing palace of the dark blue triangle,
tro chok dorjé shyönnu la solwa deb
The supreme wrathful one, Vajrakumāra, to you I pray:
ten dra damsi dulwar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so I may subdue damsi demons and enemies of the teachings!

ku shyi yeshe chenpö long yang né
Out of the vast expanse of great four kāya wisdom,
sé chok rik shyi tsok la solwa deb
The supreme sons of the four families, to you I pray:
trinlé tokmé drubpar jing gyi lob
Grant your blessings so I may accomplish enlightened action without hindrance!

durtrö tsub gyur shying chü den tengdu
In the wild charnel ground upon the ten fit for liberating,
rangjung trowo chu la solwa deb
The ten self-arisen wrathful ones, to you I pray:
dro dön tokmé jungwar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so that beings welfare may come about without hindrance!

ri gyantsé mö né chok dampa né
From the supreme sacred place at the peak of the king of mountains,
jakhyung trowö gyalpo la solwa deb
Garuḍa, the king of the wrathful, to you I pray:
dé gyé zil gyi nönpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so that the eight classes may be overcome!

drusum trak shyak trukpé shyalyé né
From the palace of the triangle of swirling blood and fat,
tersung ma za dam sum la solwa deb
Terma guardians, Ekajāṭī, Rāhula and Damchen, to you I pray:
chi nang barché shyiwar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so that outer and inner obstacles may be pacified!

detar solwa tabpé jinlab kyi
Through the blessings of praying in this way,
jikten khorwé jawa rab pang né
May I utterly renounce all worldly, samsaric action,
sang sum namdak lumé lam shyuk té
Set out upon the pure, undeceiving path of the three secrets,
tartuk dorjé sangwa chok tob shok
And obtain the supreme, ultimate vajra secret!

This is the authentic profound terma deciphered by the dākiṇī Dharmatsandra (Gyarong Khandro)
from the inlaid casket taken from Khyungtak Dorjei Yangdzong.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2015.

Source: bkra shis dpal 'byor. "phur pa'i gsol 'debs dngos grub char 'bebs/" in gsung 'bum/_rab
gsal zla ba. TBRC W21809. 25 vols. Delhi: Shechen Publications, 1994. http://tbrc.org/link?RID=W21809
Vol. 10: 32–33

Version: 1.1-20210624